feat(docs): document how to provide data to the SILO preprocessing (#582)
GenSpectrum/LAPIS: lapis2-docs/src/content/docs/maintainer-docs/references/preprocessing.mdx

description: Reference on the SILO preprocessing
---

import TsvExample from '../../../../components/TsvExample.astro';

The SILO preprocessing accepts input data in two formats:

-   `NDJSON`: a single [NDJSON](https://ndjson.org/) file containing all the data,
-   `TSV/FASTA`: a directory containing
    -   a TSV file with the metadata
    -   FASTA files with the sequences

The preprocessing configuration file determines which format should be used.

## Preprocessing Configuration

> The preprocessing configuration file is a YAML file that allows the following keys.

Reviewer: ... allows the keys show in the table below.

> The preprocessing configuration file is a YAML file that allows the following keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preprocessing configuration file is a YAML file that allows the keys show in the table below.
```

All keys are optional and have default values.

> Some keys are relevant only for one of the two formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some keys are relevant only for one of the two input file formats.
```
